when we're not on camera when we're not
on YouTube
my girlfriend and I talk a lot about the
history of Asia politics of Asia but
inexorably and inevitably my background
as a scholar of Buddhism comes up again
and again and yesterday Melissa asked me
a question after a long conversation
that covered and included not just
Buddhism but Taoism Confucianism other
ancient philosophies from China that
don't fall into any of these categories
except for the hunt fates uh the origins
of the Han Dynasty if your conversation
like this Melissa asked me in effect I
think you you worded it as how
comfortable are you now talking about
Buddhism or even how comfortable I be
visiting Buddhist temples talking about
as monks having those interactions there
talking to two Buddhist professors you
also asked me interesting question you
asked me this is a really good question
actually just do I feel that I could
make a positive difference in the world
if I went back to university and got a
master's degree or even a PhD in input
of studies and my answer that was yes
like yeah I actually do think that's an
important and positive then you in the
world so the question is gonna ask you
for the sake of the audience and
obviously this is put in my head partly
because you know I have some fans of the
channel who are experts and some of them
are pretty strident critics of Buddhist
Buddhism or even kind of ante Buddhists
um I was going to what extent do you
feel that I am still in effect you know
a Buddhist or that I'm secretly Buddhist
I may be more Buddhist you know then I
then I Sam and like look I think like I
think there's a real sincere question
someone like Jordan Peterson how
Christian is he and how atheist is he
sometimes the answer can't be found by
just quoting the guy himself you know I
think I think there were a lot of
historical figures like that you know
even even someone less extreme as Mao
Zedong at the same time that he's
burning down Buddhist temples and
destroying historical literature we know
that privately he was really interested
in and inspired by and postulated that
stuff new new archaeological discoveries
happen during the
life of Mao Zedong he was really
interested to read exactly these ancient
texts that were at the same time banned
for the general public to read and were
some extent being burned and destroyed
the question of you know what is
someone's real ideological persuasion
because i you know i don't i don't feel
like i'm anti buddhist any more than I'd
say I'm like 80 Shakespeare you know
what I mean like I think this is a
literature that's really kind of
meaningful and it's a philosophy it's an
ancient philosophy there's a lot of
flaws but you know you know Aristotle
has a lot of flaws well the wrong with
theirs though so my question is how
Buddhist is isomers are also in that
conversation I asked what do you think
the role of Buddhism today is or should
be yes in society if you were actually
inspiring people to go back and read the
pally Canon and if they were if Buddhism
really was taking on you know the
aspects of the original Canon versus
what it's become today in Zen Buddhism
for example not not terrible Buddhism
which is what you used to study but I
mean you know so there are different
sects so it's hard for me to say like oh
well I mean you you're vegetarian or
vegan so in this way like I associate
this with Buddhism but you've also told
me that the Buddha didn't explicitly say
to not eat meat the Buddha ate meat yeah
so in this way like I think in some
people's perceptions of Buddhist I think
you do embody some of the some of the
characteristics like you don't drink
alcohol you you don't you don't smoke
cigarettes you you live a very pious
lifestyle in some ways yeah well you
know we have this word within veganism
people talk about abolitionism and being
an abolitionist vegan as opposed to
ameliorative or reduce to tearing about
their schools of a vegan thought I mean
I think it's clear to say I'm not
calling for the abolition of Buddhism in
the same way that I do openly call
basically for the abolition of
Christianity you know so that that's
interesting and that's something you see
even within the last couple videos on
this channel and you see in my
interactions with a couple of supporters
on patreon of God who are really you
know more hard disillusioned exploit
assignment oh but in the same way you've
been very critical of actual practicing
Buddhist what people say about Buddha's
on you because you've read manuscripts
you've read stone inscriptions you've
done this hard work that so many people
don't do in learning the original
languages oh well saying like you you
are critical even more so that like us
particular aspects of Buddhism right and
how it's like you know I'm not asking
about critique because as you know I've
had to say this getting in the channel
if if you do film critique it doesn't
mean you want to abolish the film
industry it doesn't mean you want to end
a cinema or even that you want the
particular film to fail or be taken to
the theaters like critique almost by
definition is something productive and
positive like when you're right I do I
have critique of Buddhism both Buddhist
doctrine you know what's in the Buddhist
philosophy was in the Asian text and the
religion is this today but I see the
function of that pratik as positive and
as helping Buddhism I think almost
nobody would would engage in that
country if they didn't have a positive
view of the future of Buddhism and the
film critic I think as a positive view
of the future of cinema sorry I wanted
to break into to make that clarification
you have this kind of contradiction I
wouldn't say it's no surprise to say
it's hypocrisy but you know you don't
believe I don't think you ever were a
believer in Hell in how it's described
in the patty cannon what you're not
somebody that believes in supernatural
aspects of religion but there there is
some of this in Buddhism so I think you
would be an abolitionist and right and
this exactly nature of it but you know
so look if you're opposed to
circumcision know
to be explicit what we mean by
circumcision is cutting off part of an
infant's penis or with a female
connector if you are morally opposed to
circumcision then you have to be opposed
to it in Islam in Christianity and
Judaism in any other well and there are
other religions there are indigenous
religions of Australia there are some
indigenous tribal religions that aren't
part of any of the larger religious
groups they have their own in South
Africa of right about that indigenous
travel religions of that involve not
exactly the same type of mutilation but
you know they have their own tradition
this way so if you're against it in one
you're getting against another I think
you know that's really hitting the nail
on the head if you're someone who
basically wants to abolish the
misconceptions within Christianity then
you'll also want to abolish those same
misconceptions when you encounter them
in Buddhism so if you don't think if you
don't think it's psychologically healthy
for children to grow up believing in
hell in heaven let's put it that way if
you think that's bad to teach people
that hell when heaven are a real place
that people go to after they die then
you must also believe it is bad to teach
that to children in Buddhism right so I
mean that puts a real fine point on it
but I think the difference is like when
I look at Christianity and I look at
Buddhism I can't look at Christianity
and say okay even if I delete these
things I really think are bad then
there's still something really positive
important left over and with Buddhism I
do feel that way I think most modern
people do they've just not comfortable
saying it like if we like to use the
word delete if we delete hell if we
delete heaven even if you delete
meditation and reincarnation if you
delete kind of all the supernatural
stuff hey there's still a body of
literature or body of philosophy here
that I think is a value that something
positive could come out of in the future
or something positive something positive
could be done with right now and it
probably probably is somewhere
I don't know of anywhere being honestly
I don't know I don't know any good
Buddhist monks I don't know any good
Buddhist authors I don't know a single
good Buddhist University professor in
the Western world it's that bad it's
that bad the state of the state of the
religion the state of even the
scholarship and I
an academic side yeah okay sorry what
you know III cut you because I think I
think that's really the crucial point is
if you don't just look at it as a
category you know put it well look the
history of Buddhism for example Tibetan
Buddhism included human sacrifice and
you know like manufacturing a bowl out
of a human skull after the person is
dead and magical so if you're against if
you're against human sacrifice but you
know obviously everyone in the modern
world has to say well I don't believe in
hell and human sacrifice but there's
still some value in Buddhism they think
right now again I I can't say this I
can't make this kind of statement about
Islam I can't say that if you if you
just you know remove the things I object
to in the in the Quran and the hadith
that there's still some philosophy there
I value or you know or even even
cultural commentary or something like
even even the material in the Pali Canon
that's just kind of reflecting on
slavery and poverty that's how I
mentioned that recently you know the
role of poverty in how I approach
Buddhism
yeah poverty and desire and you know is
life fundamentally about happiness and
self-indulgence or is life about
something else and self-discipline
there's a lot there morally and
aesthetically I relate to thusly
and let's point out I relate to those
same doctrines positively when I
encounter them in ancient Athens in
ancient Rome in other contexts so again
it's the same thing where you break down
the category into particular
philosophies or something and then you
can the question was do you feel like
you married a Buddhist life with me is
is it kind of Buddhist tea or not yeah
nobody that's you know and that's okay
that's a really good example so I
mentioned this to Melissa before I met a
particular woman in China who although
she was born Chinese she really
converted to tera vaada orthodox
buddhism which is very rare she did the
research and she realized that it's
really the pali canon
authentic Buddhism and she and her
family they would chance
Palli together and they you know she
admitted they really didn't know how to
pronounce pally so they were kind of
chanting patli in a Chinese accent er in
Chinese ma no souls
I would imagine so people who chant
ancient texts you know I would study
ancient texts but like even if it were
Shakespeare do you really want to
memorize Shakespeare you know
memorization is a powerful tool you know
okay are you just studying this text
were saying to memorize it you may not
know this the vast majority of people
engage in those practices 'm in buddhism
they believe that there is literally
magic being released by the words by
saying them out loud to give an example
a Buddhist monk who will write out
sutras in Pali
now su tanta is the correct word but it
will write out a scripture in Pali using
chalk on a chalkboard
they will then collect the chalk dust
and make that into a kind of magical
it looks yes so the chalk dust that's
been formed into the words of the Buddha
and you know naturally this lends itself
to a I've read a really tear-jerking so
really heartbreaking story about a guy
in Cambodia a guy was fighting against
communism in Cambodia and he had he had
a magical Buddhist piece of cloth with
words words from the Pali can and
written on this cloth that he was
wearing to give himself you know and
vulnerability or you know that that was
that was the purpose of it you know to
save your life in war that if you wore
this you know give you some magical
powers his belief in the words and when
he was condemned to death he was going
to be put in a firing line firing squad
by the communists he took off the he
took off the magical magical piece of
cloth and he handed it to a Frenchman
who was standing there Frenchmen was it
was a scholar not a special pal he said
oh no I want the Frenchman out and
that's he's the witness who wrote the
story of this happening and he was shot
and killed but in a sense you know it's
the ultimate kind of pathos of wanting
the magic to survive you know if he dies
wearing this amulet that gives him
invulnerability then you'll lose faith
in the invoker
but if you
takes it off and goes to his death then
the belief in the magic power of the
word is still there so you know people
people chant you know again I I would
disagree with that if it's magical
chanting if it's not just like studying
the same way you'd study Shakespeare or
study Aristotle or study Plato and maybe
maybe you want to maybe you want to
memorize the words of Aristotle or Plato
or or you know just for the
philosophical value of it or for some
other reason you really want to commit
to the text that way but you know a
Catholic monk in Ireland marching back
and forth and chanting the same words in
Latin again and again if there are a few
monasteries and I understood that if I
object to that belief in magical
chanting and Catholicism then I've got
to object to it also in in Buddhism
right so this is how but I mean these
examples for people who know and care
about Buddhism this is where it cuts it
so close where some Buddhists would feel
that I'm anti Buddhist if you don't
believe the words are magical why do you
study them and my answer is maybe if you
study them you'll figure out that they
have real value that's not magical you
know and again I can't say that about
all religions I really can't say that
there's some I don't feel there's any
great philosophy to be discovered and
reading the Book of Psalms in the Old
Testament I don't feel that Moses was a
great philosopher well I don't at all I
would really say the opposite it's kind
of there are some historically
interesting things about you know
studying Moses in though I cannot say
that but where with Buddhism when you
delete all these things and have a kind
of secular or analytical attitude that
there is is still really some positive
value there